Now, we're gonna talk about relationships,
and
what happens when two
tables love each other.
So, so far, all of our queries
have relatively been one to one,
not relatively they've actually
been one to one, right?
Where, I write a query,
and I get one row back for
I look up something in the spreadsheet,
and I get one row back from it.
That's kind of the methodology
that we've been looking at, but
now we're gonna start thinking
about recipes, right?
A recipe contains ingredients, so,
you can think of something like a tomato,
how many different recipes
contain tomatoes, right?
It's gonna be on pizza, it'll be on
spaghetti, it'll be in a BLT, right?
So, one tomato,
belongs to multiple recipes, right?
But on the same direction,
a recipe contains many ingredients, right?
It's not that just one
recipe is just a tomato,
it's kind of a dumb recipe at that point,
right?
It has, many ingredients in it,
so, a recipe has,
many ingredients,
ingredients belong to many recipes,
this is called a many-to-many
relationship, that make sense so far?
You can also have
a one-to-one relationship,
though typically you wouldn't model
that as multiple tables, typically,
you would model that as just one table,
right?
Where, a recipe has a, or let's say,
an ingredient has a type,
it only has one type, so,
that's why we put it
together in the same table.
But, in theory,
those could be split in different tables,
if that made sense to you.
We are gonna talk now about
a one-to-many relationship,
which, let's think about a recipe,
and a recipe has photos.
You could have zero photos, you could
have one photo, you could have 15 photos.
A photo is not going to
belong to many recipes,
that photo belongs to a single recipe,
right?
You can kinda think of this
like an Instagram user, right?
I don't post a picture, and
then someone else owns it, right?
So, there's no many to many relationship
for photos, as a user, I post a photo,
it is my photo, it only belongs to me.
We're gonna do the same kind of
modeling for these recipes, that,
you have a recipe, it has many photos,
and it belongs to one recipe,
this is a one, one recipe to many,
many photos relationship.
Well, how would you model this,
if you were doing a spreadsheet?
Let's say I had a spreadsheet,
and I had ingredients in
that spreadsheet, and
I had, one recipe that had,
10 photos, and
I had another recipe that had, 0 photos.
Well, the way that you could model that,
in a spreadsheet,
is you would have, 10 columns for photos.
And then, the one that has 0 photos, just
would have zero things in those columns.
And then the one that has 10,
has 10, the problem is now,
every single row has this
giant wasted space, right?
You have to have a column, for
as many as one with the most wasteful,
and it's confusing, to be honest with you.
So, the way that we can do this, thinking
again, in terms of recipe with this,
we can have a first spreadsheet,
that has just the recipes, and
we can have a second table.
A second spreadsheet,
that has just photos in it, and
then we can use IDs to
reference each other.
So, that's what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna have two tables,
we're gonna have a recipe table, and we're
going to have a recipe photos table, and
then we're going to, join them, together.
Let's go ahead and start,
a recipes table, nothing here is unique,
or interesting to you except maybe that
we're using a text, here for body,
because bodies could be
potentially very long, right?
The recipes, so,
it could be 1000 word essay in here,
if we really wanted it to be, so,
we're gonna use the unbound type of
text, Okay?
I'm going to come over
here to my database, and
I'm just gonna paste that business,
create table recipes,
recipe ID, integer primary key,
and a body, of text.
Which could be kinda a dumb recipe,
but, here we are, okay?
I now have a table there, great, and,
nothing here is really rocket science,
let's go ahead and
insert a few recipes into
our little table here.
So, again, I'm just gonna copy and paste
these, coz I don't wanna type all of that.
Okay, so now I have *FROM recipes,
you can see here I have, six recipes
Pro tip, don't write a course while
hungry, this is probably more for
me, than for you but,
I got really hungry in this course.
I think, literally the day that I
wrote this be ended up ordering,
dumplings coz I really wanted
some xiao long bao [LAUGH].
And if you haven't tried any of these,
especially any of these foods,
you should definitely order those, okay.
So, now we have a variable amount
of photos, per recipe, right?
Imagine this is like all recipes,
or something like that, right?
Where, users can post photos
of their recipes, right?
And we wanna to associate with that,
how are we gonna do that?
We're gonna to create a second table,
called recipes photos,
again, this is gonna have a photo ID,
which is gonna be a primary key,
it's gonna have a recipe ID,
which is just going to be an integer.
I know some of you are asking me right
now, Brian, what about foreign keys?
Just, hold on to it, we're gonna
talk about in the next chapter,
again we're gonna do it
the naive way first, and
then I'm going to show you how
to do with foreign keys, okay?
Create table recipe photos, go ahead and
do that for me, right now as well.
Just to show you we have ingredients, we
have recipes, and we have recipes photos.
And then we have all of the IDs,
which are great,
they're all there, cool, and then now,
we're gonna insert a bunch of
stuff into recipes photos.
Okay?
So, copy and paste, that, so,
select star from recipes, photos
You can see here, we have a bunch of
photo IDs, and then recipe IDs, which
obviously these are not unique, because
again, one, which is a cookie, right?
Can have multiple photos it does,
it has five photos,
he has something like jollof rice,
which just has one.
You have something like ketchup
curry that has five, and
then you have something like xiao
long bow which has nothing, right?
It has no photos in here,
that was ID six, so,
let's say, I have shakshuka, and
I wanna select all of the photos,
for shakshuka.
So, what I can do here is I can SELECT
* FROM recipes_photos WHERE id = 4.
Sorry, WHERE recipe_id = 4.
Cool, good, now, I was able to
do that just because I happen to
know off the top of my head,
what the ID is for shakshuka,
obviously, your code is not
going to know that, right?
You need to have some sort of way to
query the first table, for the shakshuka,
to grab its ID, and to use that ID,
to query, the second table.
You could say that we need to join
our data, you should say that,
coz that's what we're gonna do.
Let's go ahead, and do that, we're gonna
do that, and we're gonna type that out so
you can kind of see that happening in real
time, so, let's write this query together.
We're gonna say, SELECT,
and we want to get,
the title, the body for
all these recipes, and
we also wanna get all of its photos,
right?
So, how are we gonna do that?
We're going to wanna get the recipe title,
so, I'm gonna say, recipe.title,
recipe.body, and photo.url FROM,
recipes_photos, recipes photos
is the name of the table, right?
And, I'm gonna give it a nickname just for
this query as photo, right?
So, this corresponds to that, it's so
I don't have to continually write out
recipes and photos,
I can write something shorter.
And actually, after this, I'm just gonna
do single-letter characters, coz it's just
way faster, but, we're gonna be looking
little bit explicit for this first one.
Okay?
Then we're going to do an INNER JOIN Okay?
We're gonna inner join recipes, recipe,
so, notice the first one I have an s,
the second one don't, again,
I just chose the name recipe.
We have to tell it what to join on,
we're gonna tell it to join on,
photo.recipe_id = recipe.recipe_id.
So, now you can see I have a title,
I have the body, and I have the URL for
all of these photos And
pinata, all of these, right?
So, that's what the join does,
it allows us to reach into tables from two
different tables, and
get combined data back for both of them.
Because there's more in the photo table,
that's why you get multiple
copies of cookies, right?
Because there are multiple cookies one,
so, later in code we'd have to go back and
collapse those down into one thing
before we set it down on the API.
And that's like, 90% for
at least inner joins, I would say,
most of the joins that I do,
are this inner join.
We're literally about to talk about
left join, right join, outer join,
all of those kinds of fun things, but
inner join basically says like there
should be a one to one matching, right?
If there is, a recipe with an ID,
and in this one,
there should be a corresponding
one in the other table, and
if it's lacking, don't include it.
Notice, there's no in here,
xiao long bao in here,
because, it does not have any photos,
right?
Therefore, it is left out of the results
set, because there are no photos for it.